---
title: A Retailistic View on CAC and LTV
---

# A Retailistic View on CAC and LTV

_by Jango – originally shared on
[jango.eth.limo](https://jango.eth.limo/?id=572BD957-0331-4977-8B2D-35F84D693276)_

The Software-as-a-service business world loves to consider the cost per
acquisition of a customer (CAC) and compare it to the lifetime value of that
customer (LTV). It follows that if LTV > CAC, the business owners make money and
can therefor spend money doing work to improve this ratio in order to make more
money, etc. The bigger the LTV and the smaller the CAC, the more leverage the
business has.

Imagine a software product, virtually free to serve once created. Traditionally,
businesses are willing to pay some amount of CAC, say $0.99, to Twitter for
showing someone an advertisement who ends up paying an LTV of $1 for access to
their software, a $0.01 profit for the business owners. They must do this
instead of simply charging $0.01 for the software because the customer would
have otherwise never contemplated the exchange. If instead the customer pays the
$1 after having been convinced of the software’s benefits from other customers’
posts they see on their feed, the business owners profit the full $1 at the
expense of the customers.

Retailistic software distribution encourages growth differently by presuposing a
networked environment where participants share the things they like with one
another, help one another learn how to use things, and troubleshoot problems
together. Instead of treating CAC as an input that yields LTV — i.e. spending
less-than-$1 on Twitter ads yields a $1 purchase, the “CAC” incurred by the
network is paid out at the time the “LTV” is paid in — i.e. the network issues
less-than-$1 worth of its $TOKEN to whoever pays in $1.

Now, why would anyone make a fuss about exchanging their $1 for $0.99 back?
Isn’t that just like paying the network $0.01? How is this encouraging anyone to
spread the word about the software?

The fuel comes from the fact that the $0.01 in profit is being paid to the
network owners who _are_ the current $TOKEN holders. Although someone’s newly
issued $TOKENs are only redeemable for a less-than-100% rebate at the time of
their payment, their $TOKENs begin to be backed by the accumulation of future
$0.01 contributions to the network. The more that is paid over time, the more
the elder $TOKENs are worth, encouraging the network supporting the software to
propegate itself.

Distributing software through a Retailist framework encourages people who
appreciate the body of work to pay its fees even when free alternatives are
available, since what’s being sold isn’t access to the software-as-a-service,
but rather support of the software-as-a-network. At the least, the framework
makes for a more compelling donation option for open source. More
optimistically, it can supplant how we think about business models and
sustainability in a networked world.

#### Related Link

[Intro to Retailism](https://jango.eth.limo/9E01E72C-6028-48B7-AD04-F25393307132)
