---
title: "Observations: Network dynamics similar between atoms, cells, organisms, groups, dance parties."
---

# Observations: Network dynamics similar between atoms, cells, organisms, groups, dance parties.

_by Jango – originally shared on
[jango.eth.limo](https://jango.eth.limo/?id=CF40F5D2-7BFE-43A3-9C15-1C6547FBD15C)_

_My observations and understandings of how networks generally behave in nature.
Those of atoms, cells, organisms, groups._

TLDR this is how a network forms:

https://youtu.be/fW8amMCVAJQ

... once instigated, the network eventually will fade away. When it does, it as
a living energy owes more to those participants who dance until the network's
very end than it does to those who correctly called the top and left before
everyone else.

A money and marketplace that recognizes this and figures out how to express
these values might end up being the backbone of very attractive and resilient
networks.

## Networks

A network is a complex interplay of participating things. It is the energy that
makes coordination more than the sum of its parts.

A network is productive so long as it is actively participating with its
out-of-network environment. This is true if the network has 2 participants, or
1,000,000. If a network’s participants are in motion — either entering or
exiting — it is alive, in a state of creation, a structure giving new shape to
the moment's energy. Without motion, it's left scheming as to how it may
eventually catalyze productivity, or be made productive by the whims of its
external environment.

### A network's energies

A network thus has kinetic and potential energy. Its kinetic energy is this rate
of its participants’ motion, entering and exiting — how alive a network is at
any point in time. Its potential energy is in its number of participants who can
exit at any time, and in the communication between participants as their
behavior can motivate new entries and exits. It takes more focused energy or
chance to attract/repel the 3rd participant than it does the 1,000,000th
participant.

### Minimum viable network

At 2 participants, a network’s potential is at its lowest — the hardest state to
muster any motion from since no one has a good reason to enter or to exit.
Agency, responsibility, and communication are consolidated as much as possible.
The “upside” potential is limitless in theory, but tangibly its potential is
insignificant since one kinetic act would dissolve it entirely. Any potential
energy that _does_ exist is derived entirely from the behavior and relationship
of the 2 participants, otherwise much is left to the unlikely chance of
interaction with the external environment.

### Network expansion is very productive

When a new participant enters a network, the network distances itself from its
lowest energy state. More energy is now required to blow it all up, agency and
responsibility spread out a little, there's more multi-dimensional communication
throughout, it becomes clearer to others how and why they should join too, and
the probability of chance interactions with the broader environment increases.
In this moment of kinetic energy, the network also gains in potential since
there now exists the requisite for motion when this new participant eventually
exits the network. This kinetic energy turns some extrinsic potential energy
into intrinsic potential energy — which will have to be spent as kinetic energy
later. Win for the current network and win for the future network.

### Network contraction is also productive

When a participant leaves, the network consolidates its energy. It becomes
easier for the resulting smaller network to renegotiate its direction. Agency
and responsibility increase for remaining participants, communication
streamlines, and participants considering entering might reconsider the move.
All are now less motivated to enter or exit as there is less going on, less
stress. The network turned some of its intrinsic potential energy into kinetic
energy. Win for the current network, but its future is now a little less
determined.

### Take away

The manner with which our human network allocates resources might can learn
something from how networks deal in energy. A money and marketplace that
expresses the value found in the organic motion between the ebbs and flows of
the network it facilitates might outcompete those more growth maxi after all.

Retailism hints at a how such a network could manifest:
https://jango.eth.limo/3EB05292-0376-4B7D-AFCF-042B70673C3D/
