---
title: Retailism
---

# Retailism

_by Jango – originally shared on
[jango.eth.limo](https://jango.eth.limo/?id=9E01E72C-6028-48B7-AD04-F25393307132)_

### WHAT

A business framework where wealth is exchanged programmatically over time from
newer participants to elder ones, and where investors and customers are treated
as alike participants. The “bag”, or the debt, is passed incrementally,
predictably, and ceremonially from one generation of voluntary participants to
the next, without need to orient towards retail extraction. Nothing is free, but
things reliably tend towards being free as a network grows over time.

### WHY

Retailism is neither corporate capitalism, which defines generations through the
passing of a bag along Series A, B, and C investors, eventually selling to
retail who continues this cycle of amplifying narratives that pump and dump
bags. Nor is it corporate non-profitism, which obfuscates risks and incentives
altogether.

These are both increasingly fragile forms of production within internet-native
markets since their requisite delineation between capital and labor becomes
fuzzy – does an AI assist you or do you assist it? Does your crypto currency
work for you or do you work for it? Do your social networks serve you or do you
serve them? Hard to say, on the internet the act of investing and consuming are
often intertwined, and tail-risks of a network's failure are spread throughout
it.

Retailism hints at a progression of the status quo that can outcompete within a
broader capitalist marketplace of -isms by empowering the producer-consumer.

### WHO

Devs and communities will choose a Retailist business structure when they prefer
their outcome to be oriented towards maximizing the network's self-propagation
while minimizing the growth potential of any party with privileged access and
exploitable liabilites. They'll understand their work to have value while also
understanding a network's preference to work for itself once instigated.

### WHEN

The Retailism framework is too fragile to exist if a rent-seeking feduciary
facilitating the handling of money and the generational handoffs is required. It
can only outcompete as an encoded contract between network participants enforced
by a blockchain, a recent breakthrough.

It is now possible to encode this without any new code at all through onchain
protocols like Juicebox.

### HOW

For each network, the framework depends on only three variables:

#### 1. Entry tax

- _How much does the cost to enter the network change from one generation to the
  next, and how often are generations?_
- _This is encodable from the Juicebox protocol by kicking off the treasury with
  a $TOKEN issuance rate, and using a discount rate with funding cycles to
  consistently decrease the issuance rate of $TOKEN forever forward, tending
  toward zero in quantized chunks._

#### 2. Exit tax

- _How much is the tax for opting out of the system?_
- _This is encodable from the Juicebox protocol using a redemption rate, leaving
  those $TOKEN holders who stick around with proportionally more as others
  redeem their $TOKENs for a chunk of the treasury._

#### 3. Dev tax

- _How will the startup work be valued? How much boosting should the network
  start with, favoring whom, and for how long?_
- _This is encodable from the Juicebox protocol using a premint of $TOKENS, and
  a reserved rate to devs and $TOKEN stakers effective until a future date when
  it is auto-removed via a scheduled funding cycle reconfiguration._

Once in motion, there is only one access point to the $TOKEN-issuing public
treasury. Network fees should be routed to this alongside any future
investments.

If a liquidity pool with a better price than the current issuance rate exists,
inbound payments should be routed to it instead. The issuance rate dampens
upward hyperbolic price manipulation of this pool by setting a price ceiling,
and the redemption rate dampens downward manipulation by setting a price floor
that increases with each subsequent redemption. These ensure participants a
window of opportunity for each generation, with a frame that can only progress
upward over time.

The rules should be as permanent as the blockchain on which they are encoded,
making the Retailist framework management-free and governance-free.

There are no perfect numbers for these variables – it is impossible to know a
priori what fair market values are for any particular network. A Retailist
strategy should become successful if and only if its initial configuration
encourages devs to dev and networks to network in peace.

#### Related Links

1. [A Retailistic View on CAC and LTV](https://jango.eth.limo/572BD957-0331-4977-8B2D-35F84D693276)
2. [Modeling Retailism](https://jango.eth.limo/B762F3CC-AEFE-4DE0-B08C-7C16400AF718/)
3. [Retailism for Devs, Investors, and Customers](https://jango.eth.limo/3EB05292-0376-4B7D-AFCF-042B70673C3D/)
